# CIS-024-Final_Project
Final Project for Python Class at SJCC

AZURE SERVICES
This project relies on REST API's from the following Azure Cognitive Services from Microsoft:
  Translation
  Speech (specifically "Text to Speech", or TTS)

Access to Azure (free, if need be) may be acquired at the Azure Portal:
  https://portal.azure.com/

Each service equires the creation of a corresponding Resource, and each Resource  creates various Endpoints, Keys, etc...  The creation, configuration and access to these Resources are necessary for this Appliction.

Use of the Translation Service requires:
  LOCATION
  KEY
  ENDPOINT

Use of The Speech Service will requires:
  SPEECH_LOCATION
  SPEECH_KEY
  ENDPOINT
  ISSUETOKEN_ENDPOINT
  NEURAL_VOICE_ENDPOINT

NOTE: The LOCATION and KEYS for each service are independent of on another!  Thus they may not be the same, and have meaning whose semantics are contextualized by each individual service.

Information about acquiring and configuring Azure Translation may be found here:
  https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/translator/text-translation-overview

Information about acquiring and configuring Azure TTS may be found here:
  https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/speech-service/get-started-speech-to-text?tabs=macos%2Cterminal&pivots=programming-language-csharp

This application uses flask and thus dotenv, so a .env file in the launch directory (the Root Directory of the Project) is required.  The variables defined in this file correspond to the endpoints, keys, etc.. for the different services previously mentioned.  .env should look like the following snippet, where YOUR_XXXX corresponds to what you have received after accessing and configuring the corresponding Azure service.

TRANSLATION_LOCATION=YOUR_LOCATION
TRANSLATION_KEY=YOUR_KEY
TRANSLATION_ENDPOINT=YOUR_ENDPOINT

SPEECH_LOCATION=YOUR_LOCATION
SPEECH_KEY=YOUR_KEY
SPEECH_ENDPOINT=YOUR_ENDPOINT
TTS_ISSUETOKEN_ENDPOINT=YOUR_ISSUETOKEN_ENDPOINT
TTS_ENDPOINT=NEURAL_VOICE_ENDPOINT

INSTALLING PYTHON MODUES
Install required python modules in {PROJECT_ROOT}/requirements.txt:
  pip install -r requirements.txt

RUNNING FLASK APPLICATION
As a flask application, this Application is run by the command 'flask run' lanched from the root direction of the project.  This command will open the application in a web server on your machine which, as indicated by the return of the command, should be runnnig on http://127.0.0.1:5000

Issuing Control-C (perhaps twice) to the terminal/console where the application was launched will stop the application from running.

Consult the documentation for flask for details.

DOTENV (.env) VARIABLES
Other variables which should be set in .env include ISSUETOKEN_FREQUENCY and MP3_DIR.

ISSUETOKEN_FREQUENCY indicates the number of seconds before the application should request a reissue for the token used to access TTS_ENDPOINT.  This number should not exceed 570, and the recommendation is 540.

MP3_DIR indicates the directory which holds the mp3 files generated by the Application and served to users.  Consequently, his REQUIRED directory will need to be created and accessible to the application for reading and writing.  Typically it is set locally as a subdirectory where the Application is running.  NOTE: This directory will need be manually cleaned of files as the Application stores the files there indefinitely.

In total, the .env file should have these variables, all of which have been mentioned in this document:
# Translation
TRANSLATION_LOCATION
TRANSLATION_KEY
TRANSLATION_ENDPOINT
# TTS
SPEECH_LOCATION
SPEECH_KEY
]SPEECH_ENDPOINT
TTS_ISSUETOKEN_ENDPOINT
TTS_ENDPOINT
# Misc
ISSUETOKEN_FREQUENCY=540
MP3_DIR=static
